ACME PLATFORM - API REFERENCE
Version 2.4 - Last updated 3 March 2026

1. OVERVIEW

The Acme Platform API is a REST interface over HTTPS. All requests and responses
use JSON, encoded as UTF-8. The current stable version is v2.

Base URL: https://api.acme.example/v2

2. AUTHENTICATION

Every request must carry a bearer token in the Authorization header:

    Authorization: Bearer <access_token>

Access tokens are issued by the token endpoint and expire after 3600 seconds
(one hour). Refresh tokens are valid for 30 days and are single use; using a
refresh token rotates it and invalidates the previous one.

Tokens must never be embedded in client-side code or committed to a repository.
Requests with an expired token return HTTP 401 with the error code
token_expired.

3. RATE LIMITS

Rate limits are applied per client identifier, not per user:

  - Sustained rate: 1000 requests per hour.
  - Burst rate: 50 requests per minute.

Every response includes the following headers:

    X-RateLimit-Limit: the applicable limit
    X-RateLimit-Remaining: requests remaining in the current window
    X-RateLimit-Reset: Unix timestamp when the window resets

Exceeding a limit returns HTTP 429 with a Retry-After header giving the number
of seconds to wait before retrying. Clients must honour Retry-After and must use
exponential backoff rather than immediate retries.

4. PAGINATION

List endpoints use cursor-based pagination. The default page size is 50 items and
the maximum page size is 200 items. Pass cursor to fetch the next page:

    GET /v2/documents?limit=100&cursor=eyJpZCI6MTIzfQ

Responses include a next_cursor field which is null on the final page. Cursors
are opaque and must not be constructed by clients. Offset-based pagination is
not supported on v2.

5. ERROR FORMAT

Errors follow RFC 7807 (problem+json). A 404 response looks like:

    {
      "type": "https://api.acme.example/problems/not-found",
      "title": "Resource not found",
      "status": 404,
      "detail": "No document with id doc_9f2 exists.",
      "instance": "/v2/documents/doc_9f2"
    }

Common status codes:

  - 400 malformed request or invalid parameter
  - 401 missing or invalid credentials
  - 403 authenticated but not permitted
  - 404 resource does not exist
  - 409 conflict, usually a duplicate idempotency key with a different body
  - 422 semantically invalid payload
  - 429 rate limit exceeded
  - 500 unexpected server error, safe to retry with backoff
  - 503 service temporarily unavailable, honour Retry-After

6. IDEMPOTENCY

POST requests that create resources accept an Idempotency-Key header. Keys must
be unique UUIDs and are retained for 24 hours. Replaying a request with the same
key and the same body returns the original response without creating a duplicate.
Replaying the same key with a different body returns HTTP 409.

7. WEBHOOKS

Webhooks deliver events to an HTTPS endpoint you register. Each delivery is
signed with HMAC-SHA256 over the raw request body using your webhook secret; the
signature arrives in the X-Acme-Signature header.

Failed deliveries are retried 5 times with exponential backoff, starting at 30
seconds and doubling each attempt. After the fifth failure the event is queued in
the dead letter store and may be replayed manually for 7 days. Webhook endpoints
must respond within 10 seconds or the delivery is treated as failed.

8. REQUEST TIMEOUTS

The API gateway closes connections after 30 seconds. Long-running operations
return HTTP 202 with an operation id; poll the operations endpoint to check
status. Polling more frequently than once every 5 seconds returns HTTP 429.

9. VERSIONING

The version is part of the path. v1 remains available but is deprecated and
receives security fixes only. Breaking changes are announced at least 180 days
before the deprecation date and are documented in the changelog.

10. SUPPORT

Report API defects to api-support@acme.example. Include the request id from the
X-Request-Id response header, which is present on every response.
